EDITORING.md, before:

[![Project Status: Concept – Minimal or no implementation has been done yet, or the repository is only intended to be a limited example, demo, or proof-of-concept.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/concept.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#concept)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/actions/workflows/check-standard.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/actions/workflows/check-standard.yaml)
[![Codecov test coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse?branch=main)
[![lint](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/workflows/lint/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/actions?query=workflow%3Alint)
[![check-cran-metadata](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/actions/workflows/check-cran-metadata.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/actions?query=workflow%3Acheck-cran-metadata)

##  How to edit contributions to *sdmverse*?

#### **Why?**

*sdmverse* is a collaborative metapackage for listing all the metadata of the Species Distribution Modelling (SDM) packages
Thus, *sdmverse* depends on the contribution, reviews, and editions of SDM packages maintainers to exist.

The package metadata is located in independent YAML files in `inst/extdata/packages/`.
For example, take a look at [*SSDM* metadata](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/blob/main/inst/extdata/packages/SSDM.yaml).

#### **How?**

If you have agreed to edit a contribution, thank you first as this repository could not work without your voluntary work!

Here is the list of action to do (to be improved with text):

1. Activate GitHub actions and check CRAN metadata
1. Thanks submission, and ask for metadata change if not meeting CRAN metadata:
    1. Dear {name} thanks for your submission.
    1. Unfortunately the fields {fields} information does not match those on CRAN {link to GitHub Action}
1. Seek reviewers:
    1. I'm looking for a second reviewer, @{collaborators} are you available? Please have a look to [reviewing guidelines](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/blob/main/REVIEWING.md)
1. Wait for review approval
1. Decide:
    1. Unfortunately, your package does not meet the `sdmverse` requirements for inclusion, so I am sorry to reject your pull request.
    1. Reviewers pointed to modification for you to do for me to approve your pull request.
    1. Thank you for your contribution. After merging your pull request I'll add yo to repository contributors and I'll probably ask you for review when I have new submission. Best, {name}
    
Thanks! :heart: :heart: :heart:

*sdmverse* Team

Commit message:

text edits to editoring and reviewing

EDITORING.md, after:

[![Project Status: Concept – Minimal or no implementation has been done yet, or the repository is only intended to be a limited example, demo, or proof-of-concept.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/concept.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#concept)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/actions/workflows/check-standard.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/actions/workflows/check-standard.yaml)
[![Codecov test coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse?branch=main)
[![lint](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/workflows/lint/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/actions?query=workflow%3Alint)
[![check-cran-metadata](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/actions/workflows/check-cran-metadata.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/actions?query=workflow%3Acheck-cran-metadata)

##  How to edit contributions to *sdmverse*?

#### **Why?**

*sdmverse* is a collaborative metapackage that catalogues metadata for R packages that focus on Species Distribution Modeling (SDM). This package depends on the contributions, reviews, and edits of SDM package maintainers.

Metadata for packages are found in YAML files located in `inst/extdata/packages/`.
For example, take a look at [*SSDM* metadata](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/blob/main/inst/extdata/packages/SSDM.yaml).

#### **How?**

If you have agreed to edit a contribution, we'd like to first thank you, as this repository could not function without your help!

Here is the list of actions to do (to be improved with text):

1. Activate GitHub Actions and check CRAN metadata.
2. Thank the contributor for the submission and ask for changes to contribution metadata if not they do not match the metadata on CRAN:
    Ex. Dear {name}, thanks for your submission.
        Unfortunately, the metadata in the fields {fields} do not match those on CRAN {link to GitHub Action}
3. Seek reviewers:
    Ex. I'm looking for a second reviewer: @{collaborators} are you available? Please have a look at the  [reviewing guidelines](https://github.com/sylvainschmitt/sdmverse/blob/main/REVIEWING.md)
4. Wait for review approval.
5. Make a decision:
    Ex. Unfortunately, your package does not meet the `sdmverse` requirements for inclusion, so I must reject your pull request. If you have questions, please post an Issue in this repository.
    Ex. The reviewers suggested edits to be made before approval of your pull request.
    Ex. Your contribution can be integrated without further edits. After merging your pull request, you will be added to the repository contributors. Please expect to be contacted for a review request in the future.
    
Thanks! :heart: :heart: :heart:

*sdmverse* Team
